---
title: Personal Notes
author: Justin Ho
date: 2023-12-31
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---

### Not Today

*8th of January 2024*

Mondays are said to be the worst, and they are. As I am drinking my wine, drowning my woes; I could not help to feel a little part of me wants me to feel worse than I actually am, manufacturing dissent, if you will, in this life that I have. That could be entirely true. But what gripe do I have in evaluating decent work done by brilliant participants?

Could one tell? Could one tell that I am being immature, complaining in the sidelines while allowing this to live in my head rent free? Why do I actually care, or why do I not? I should make a decision. And the truth is, there is a lot of wisdom in my professors who could navigate all this bullshit and stay afloat regardless, and maybe I am here to learn that. Tolerance to this, whole, farce... At least that is how it feels at times.

Learning to be grateful is indeed hard, especially when you are raised so privileged. If you could not name the problem, then, it isn't a problem. It is probably in your head.

### A Personal Reminder

*31st of December 2023*

It would be disingenuous to say that I had to leave behind a lot in 2023. I did, but they were choices. Intentional, brimmed with the excitement of change. I had given up many things, and in return, I had received a lot. That, I should always remind myself.  

As the arbitrary number approaches that defines our world, I have the all too familiar task to do in my small apartment in Boston, MA. A state whose name I could not spell without doing a Google Search. aAstate that I grew to adore and love, but harbour a sense of distaste from the lingering memories of comfort from Lincoln. 

*'Estas por encima del mundo'* is perhaps not the right way to phrase things, neither does it make me feel better about myself. But I am somewhere that matters, somewhere that, that if I just could be honest to myself, is miles better than what most people have. That, I do have to remind myself that.